My sprinkler goes like thisstststststststststststststststststststststststst and comes back like ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttte
Don't you just hate it when your cat wakes you up like this? Meow. Meow. Meow
Can you guys hear that helicopter? TTT! TTT! TTT!
2020 is really the Year of the Rat. We are all in hiding and only come out to get food.
While PCR tests offer many advantages they are physical things that require shipping the test or the sample.
X-ray machines can be plugged in to screen patients as long as they have electricity.
The 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID-19) presents several unique features.
In late January, a Chinese team published a paper detailing the clinical and paraclinical features of COVID-19.
Oh, boy, I can see your body moving. Half animal, half man. I don't, don't really know what I'm doing
Yeah, she's so sexy, every man's fantasy
A refugee like me back with the Fugees from a third world country
I go back like when 'Pac carried crates for Humpty Humpty
We leave the whole club dizzy
Why the CIA wanna watch us?
Colombians and Haitians
I ain't guilty, it's a musical transaction
Bo bop so bop, no more do we snatch ropes
Refugees run the seas 'cause we own our own boats (no fighting)
When I am down, and, oh, my soul, so weary
When troubles come, and my heart burdened be
Then, I am still and wait here in the silence
Until you come and sit awhile with me
You raise me up, so I can stand on mountains
You raise me up to walk on stormy seas
I am strong when I am on your shoulders
You raise me up to more than I can be
Near the beginning of his career, Einstein thought that Newtonian mechanics was no longer enough to reconcile the laws of classical mechanics with the laws of the electromagnetic field.
This led him to develop his special theory of relativity during his time at the Swiss Patent Office.
In 1905, called his annus mirabilis (miracle year), he published four groundbreaking papers, which attracted the attention of the academic world
the first outlined the theory of the photoelectric effect
the second paper explained Brownian motion
the third paper introduced special relativity
and the fourth mass-energy equivalence.
That year, at the age of 26, he was awarded a PhD by the University of Zurich.
Although initially treated with scepticism from many in the scientific community, Einstein's works gradually came to be recognised as significant advancements.
He was invited to teach theoretical physics at the University of Bern in 1908 and the following year moved to the University of Zurich
then in 1911 to Charles University in Prague before returning to the Federal Polytechnic School in Zürich in 1912.
In 1914, he was elected to the Prussian Academy of Sciences in Berlin, where he remained for 19 years.
Soon after publishing his work on special relativity, Einstein began working to extend the theory to gravitational fields; he then published a paper on general relativity in 1916, introducing his theory of gravitation.
He continued to deal with problems of statistical mechanics and quantum theory, which led to his explanations of particle theory and the motion of molecules.
He also investigated the thermal properties of light and the quantum theory of radiation, the basis of laser, which laid the foundation of the photon theory of light.
In 1917, he applied the general theory of relativity to model the structure of the universe.
In 1933, while Einstein was visiting the United States, Adolf Hitler came to power.
Because of his Jewish background, Einstein did not return to Germany.
He settled in the United States and became an American citizen in 1940.
On the eve of World War II, he endorsed a letter to President Franklin D. Roosevelt alerting FDR to the potential development of "extremely powerful bombs of a new type" and recommending that the US begin similar research.
This eventually led to the Manhattan Project. Einstein supported the Allies, but he generally denounced the idea of using nuclear fission as a weapon.
He signed the Russell–Einstein Manifesto with British philosopher Bertrand Russell, which highlighted the danger of nuclear weapons.
He was affiliated with the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, until his death in 1955.
He published more than 300 scientific papers and more than 150 non-scientific works.
His intellectual achievements and originality have made the word "Einstein" synonymous with "genius".
Eugene Wigner compared him to his contemporaries, writing that "Einstein's understanding was deeper even than Jancsi von Neumann's.
His mind was both more penetrating and more original".
There is a rise of O2O (online to offline) services, in which users are using their cellphones to get their cars washed, make last-minute restaurant reservations, find discounted deals, order prescription medicine, and more.
Cellphones are becoming a “remote control” for the physical environment around us.
O2O’s rise has been rapid in China, because of its high population density.
On a recent trip there, I shot this sequence of eight videos to give viewers a sense of this rise of O2O.
Monkey D. Luffy also known as "Straw Hat Luffy" and commonly as "Straw Hat", is the main protagonist of the manga and anime, One Piece.
He is the founder and captain of the increasingly infamous and powerful Straw Hat Pirates, as well as one of its top three fighters.
His lifelong dream is to become the Pirate King by finding the legendary treasure left behind by the late Pirate King, Gol D. Roger.
He believes that being Pirate King means having the most freedom in the world.
He is the son of the Revolutionary leader Monkey D. Dragon, the grandson of the Marine hero Monkey D. Garp, the sworn brother of late "Fire Fist" Portgas D. Ace and Revolutionary Chief-of-Staff Sabo, and the foster son of Curly Dadan.
By the time Luffy and his crew left the East Blue for the Grand Line, they had defeated all the strongest pirate crews of the eastern seas, with Luffy himself defeating all their captains.
This earned him the highest bounty of the East Blue at Beli30,000,000.
He has since gained a worldwide reputation for causing trouble, challenging the Shichibukai, the Marines, and the Yonko, additionally committing felonies and actions which were deemed threatening by the World Government.
Furthermore, in the majority of these confrontations, he has emerged as the victor.
He has gained a reputation for being "reckless" and, in some cases, "insane", after causing an incident in Enies Lobby, assaulting a World Noble at Sabaody Archipelago, entering and escaping from Impel Down (while indirectly causing a large-scale riot in the process), and joining the Battle of Marineford.
He is, therefore, infamous for being the only known pirate to not only deliberately attack the three most important government facilities, but also escape from all of them alive after facing incredibly powerful opponents in each one.
The additional fact that he punched a World Noble with full knowledge of the consequences, as well as his heritage, has caused Luffy to be labeled as a "Dangerous Future Element", earning the wrath of Fleet Admiral Sakazuki and Marine Headquarters.
An empty street
An empty house
A hole inside my heart
I'm all alone
The rooms are getting smaller
I wonder how
I wonder why
I wonder where they are
The days we had
The songs we sang together
Oh yeah
And all my love
I'm holding on forever
Reaching for the love that seems so far
So I say a little prayer
And hope my dreams will take me there
Where the skies are blue
To see you once again, my love
Over seas from coast to coast
To find the place I love the most
Where the fields are green
To see you once again, my love
I tried to read
I go to work
I'm laughing with my friends
But I can't stop
To keep myself from hinking
Oh no
Now I'm the king of the swingers, oh
The jungle VIP
I've reached the top and had to stop
And that's what botherin' me
I wanna be a man, mancub
And stroll right into town
And be just like the other men
I'm tired of monkeyin' around!
Oh, oobee doo
I wanna be like you
I wanna walk like you, talk like you, too
You'll see it's true someone like me
Can learn to be like someone like you
Now don't try to kid me, mancub
I'll make a deal with you
What I desire is man's red fire
To make my dream come true
Now, give me the secret, mancub
Come on, clue me what to do
Give me the power of man's red flower
So I can be like you
Look at me
I will never pass for a perfect bride
Or a perfect daughter
Can it be I'm not meant to play this part
Now I see
That if I were truly to be myself, I would break my family's heart
Who is that girl I see
Staring straight, back at me
Why is my reflection someone I don't know
Somehow I cannot hide
Who I am
Though I've tried
When will my reflection show who I am inside
You're not a voice, you're just a ringing in my ear
And if I heard you, which I don't, I'm spoken for I fear
Everyone I've ever loved is here within these walls
I'm sorry, secret siren, but I'm blocking out your calls
I've had my adventure, I don't need something new
I'm afraid of what I'm risking if I follow you
Ladies and gents, this is the moment you've waited for (woah)
Been searching in the dark, your sweat soaking through the floor (woah)
And buried in your bones there's an ache that you can't ignore
Taking your breath, stealing your mind
And all that was real is left behind
Don't fight it, it's coming for you, running at ya
It's only this moment, don't care what comes after
Your fever dream, can't you see it getting closer
Just surrender 'cause you feel the feeling taking over
It's fire, it's freedom, it's flooding open
It's a preacher in the pulpit and you'll find devotion
There's something breaking at the brick of every wall, it's holding
All that you know
So tell me do you wanna go?
Where it's covered in all the colored lights
Where the runaways are running the night
Impossible comes true, it's taking over you
Oh, this is the greatest show
We light it up, we won't come down
And the sun can't stop us now
Watching it come true, it's taking over you
Oh, this is the greatest show
colossal we come these renegades in the ring
(Woah) where the lost get found in the crown of the circus king
I close my eyes and I can see
The world that's waiting up for me
That I call my own
Through the dark, through the door
Through where no one's been before
But it feels like home
They can say, they can say it all sounds crazy
They can say, they can say I've lost my mind
I don't care, I don't care, so call me crazy
We can live in a world that we design
'Cause every night I lie in bed
The brightest colors fill my head
A million dreams are keeping me awake
I think of what the world could be
A vision of the one I see
A million dreams is all it's gonna take
A million dreams for the world we're gonna make
There's a house we can build
Every room inside is filled
With things from far away
The special things I compile
Each one there to make you smile
On a rainy day
Right here, right now
I put the offer out
I don't want to chase you down
I know you see it
You run with me
And I can cut you free
Out of the drudgery and walls you keep in
So trade that typical for something colorful
And if it's crazy, live a little crazy
You can play it sensible, a king of conventional
Or you can risk it all and see
Don't you wanna get away from the same old part you gotta play
'Cause I got what you need, so come with me and take the ride
It'll take you to the other side
'Cause you can do like you do
Or you can do like me
Stay in the cage, or you'll finally take the key
Oh, damn! Suddenly you're free to fly
It'll take you to the other side
Okay, my friend, you want to cut me in
Well I hate to tell you, but it just won't happen
So thanks, but no
I think I'm good to go
'Cause I quite enjoy the life you say I'm trapped in
Now I admire you, and that whole show you do
You're onto something, really it's something
But I live among the swells, and we don't pick up peanut shells
I'll have to leave that up to you
Some people long for a life that is simple and planned
Tied with a ribbon
Some people won't sail the sea 'cause they're safer on land
To follow what's written
But I'd follow you to the great unknown
Off to a world we call our own
Hand in my hand and we promised to never let go
We're walking the tightrope
High in the sky
We can see the whole world down below
We're walking the tightrope
Never sure, never know how far we could fall
But it's all an adventure
That comes with a breathtaking view
Walking the tightrope
Mountains and valleys, and all that will come in between
Desert and ocean
You pulled me in and together we're lost in a dream
Always in motion
So I risk it all just to be with you
And I risk it all for this life we choose
I'm trying to hold my breath
Let it stay this way
Can't let this moment end
You set off a dream in me
Getting louder now
Can you hear it echoing?
Take my hand
Will you share this with me?
'Cause darling without you
All the shine of a thousand spotlights
All the stars we steal from the nightsky
Will never be enough
Never be enough
Towers of gold are still too little
These hands could hold the world but it'll
Never be enough
I'm tired of being what you want me to be
Feeling so faithless, lost under the surface
I don't know what you're expecting of me
Put under the pressure of walking in your shoes
Every step that I take is another mistake to you
I've become so numb, I can't feel you there
Become so tired, so much more aware
By becoming this all I want to do
Is be more like me and be less like you
Can't you see that you're smothering me?
Holding too tightly, afraid to lose control
'Cause everything that you thought I would be
Has fallen apart right in front of you
Caught in the undertow, just caught in the undertow
Every step that I take is another mistake to you
And every second I waste is more than I can take!
It starts with one thing
I don't know why
It doesn't even matter how hard you try
Keep that in mind
I designed this rhyme
To explain in due time
All I know
Time is a valuable thing
Watch it fly by as the pendulum swings
Watch it count down to the end of the day
The clock ticks life away
It's so unreal
Didn't look out below
Watch the time go right out the window
Trying to hold on, but you didn't even know
Wasted it all just to watch you go
I kept everything inside
And even though I tried, it all fell apart
What it meant to me
Will eventually be a memory of a time when
I tried so hard
And got so far
But in the end
It doesn't even matter
I miss the taste of a sweeter life
I miss the conversation
I'm searching for a song tonight
I'm changing all of the stations
I like to think that we had it all
We drew a map to a better place
But on that road I took a fall
Oh baby why did you run away?
I was there for you
In your darkest times
I was there for you
In your darkest night
But I wonder, where were you?
When I was at my worst
Down on my knees
And you said you had my back
So I wonder, where were you?
All the roads you took came back to me
So I'm following the map that leads to you you-you-you-you-you
Ain't nothing I can do
The map that leads to you
Following, following, following to you you-you-you-you-you
Ain't nothing I can do
The map that leads to you
Following, following, following
Uptown girl
She's been living in her uptown world
I bet she never had a back street guy
I bet her mama never told her why
I'm gonna try for an uptown girl
She's been living in her white bread world
As long as anyone with hot blood can
And now she's looking for a downtown man
That's what I am
And when she knows what she wants from her time
And when she wakes up and makes up her mind
She'll see I'm not so tough
Just because
I'm in love with an uptown girl
You know I've seen her in her uptown world
She's getting tired of her high class toys
And all her presents from her uptown boys
She's got a choice
Uptown girl
You know I can't afford to buy her pearls
But maybe someday when my ship comes in
She'll understand what kind of guy I've been
And then I'll win
Goodbye to you my trusted friend
We've known each other since we were nine or ten
Together we've climbed hills and trees
Learned of love and ABC's
Skinned our hearts and skinned our knees
Goodbye my friend it's hard to die
When all the birds are singing in the sky
Now that spring is in the air
Pretty girls are everywhere
Think of me and I'll be there
We had joy, we had fun
we had seasons in the sun
But the hills that we climbed
Were just seasons out of time
Goodbye Papa please pray for me
I was the black sheep of the family
You tried to teach me right from wrong
Too much wine and too much song
Wonder how I got along
Goodbye Papa it's hard to die
When all the birds are singing in the sky
Now that the spring is in the air
Little children everywhere
When you see them, I'll be there
When you're numb to the touch
You cannot chase this ghost away
And this too shall pass, this too shall pass
It won't always be the same
And every single scar that you claim
Is a stone in the path to this place
And every single choice that you made
Has led you this way, so lay your head on me
And I can see it in your eyes, love
And your secret is not safe with me
You can spin through the night, with your powdered mind
But don't cover up your scars for me
Hey, I was doing just fine before I met you
I drink too much and that's an issue but I'm okay
Hey, you tell your friends it was nice to meet them
But I hope I never see them again
I know it breaks your heart
Moved to the city in a broke down car
And four years, no calls
Now you're looking pretty in a hotel bar
And I can't stop
No, I can't stop
So baby pull me closer in the backseat of your Rover
That I know you can't afford
Bite that tattoo on your shoulder
Pull the sheets right off the corner
Of the mattress that you stole
From your roommate back in Boulder
We ain't ever getting older
You look as good as the day I met you
I forget just why I left you, I was insane
Stay and play that Blink-182 song
That we beat to death in Tucson, okay
Tell me somethin', girl
Are you happy in this modern world?
Or do you need more?
Is there somethin' else you're searchin' for?
I'm falling
In all the good times I find myself
Longin' for change
And in the bad times I fear myself
Tell me something, boy
Aren't you tired tryin' to fill that void?
Or do you need more?
Ain't it hard keeping it so hardcore?
I'm off the deep end, watch as I dive in
I'll never meet the ground
Crash through the surface, where they can't hurt us
We're far from the shallow now
I could stay awake just to hear you breathing
Watch you smile while you are sleeping
While you're far away dreaming
I could spend my life in this sweet surrender
I could stay lost in this moment forever
Every moment spent with you is a moment I treasure
Don't want to close my eyes
I don't want to fall asleep
'Cause I'd miss you baby
And I don't want to miss a thing
'Cause even when I dream of you
The sweetest dream will never do
I'd still miss you baby
And I don't want to miss a thing
Lying close to you feeling your heart beating
And I'm wondering what you're dreaming
Wondering if it's me you're seeing
Then I kiss your eyes
And thank God we're together
I just want to stay with you in this moment forever
Forever and ever
Look at the stars
Look how they shine for you
And everything you do
Yeah they were all yellow
I came along
I wrote a song for you
And all the things you do
And it was called "Yellow"
So then I took my turn
Oh what a thing to have done
And it was all yellow
Your skin
Oh yeah, your skin and bones
Turn into something beautiful
You know, you know I love you so
You know I love you so
I swam across
I jumped across for you
Oh what a thing to do
'Cause you were all yellow
I drew a line
I drew a line for you
Oh what a thing to do
Come up to meet you
Tell you I'm sorry
You don't know how lovely you are
I had to find you
Tell you I need you
Tell you I set you apart
Tell me your secrets
And ask me your questions
Oh let's go back to the start
Running in circles, coming up tails
Heads on a science apart
Nobody said it was easy
It's such a shame for us to part
Nobody said it was easy
No one ever said it would be this hard
Oh take me back to the start
I was just guessing at numbers and figures
Pulling your puzzles apart
Questions of science, science and progress
Do not speak as loud as my heart
Tell me you love me
Come back and haunt me
Oh and I rush to the start
Running in circles, chasing our tails
Coming back as we are
I was thinkin about you, thinkin about me
Thinkin about us, what we gonna be?
Open my eyes, yeah; it was only just a dream
So I travel back, down that road
Will you come back? No one knows
I realize, yeah, it was only just a dream
I was at the top and I was like I'm at the basement
Number one spot and now you found your a replacement
I swear now I can't take it
Knowing somebody's got my baby
And now you ain't around, baby I can't think
Shoulda put it down, shoulda got that ring
Cuz I can still feel it in the air
See your pretty face run my fingers through your hair
My lover, my life, my baby, my wife
You left me, I'm tied
Cuz I knew that it just ain't right
On the medical front, we continue to see new cases in Singapore.
Most either have travelled overseas, or can be traced to imported cases.
Each time we have been able to isolate them, do contact tracing, and quarantine the close contacts.
So our numbers have not blown up. But neither have we been able to eradicate the virus, despite our best efforts.
My fellow Singaporeans
I spoke to you on TV last week to explain why we needed to implement a circuit breaker.
We anticipated a rise in our local COVID-19 cases, especially more unlinked cases that we are unable to trace.
We also worried about more cases and clusters emerging in foreign worker dormitories.
Unfortunately, in the week since then, these have happened.
We have seen outbreaks in several foreign worker dormitories.
Many dorms have cases, and some dorms have many cases.
We have responded comprehensively to contain the spread in the dorms, and to protect the foreign workers.
Yesterday, Ministers Lawrence Wong and Gan Kim Yong explained what we are doing.
They have set up an interagency task force to handle the situation in the dorms.
Ministry of Health, Ministry of Manpower, the SAF, the Home Team, all are involved.
The commander of the task force is the Chief Guards Officer from the Army, and Senior Minister Teo Chee Hean is advising the ministers on this issue.
The task force has deployed Forward Assurance Support Teams in all the dorms.
These teams work closely with the dorm operators and can respond quickly to the workers’ essential needs.
They are setting up medical facilities and triage clinics, bringing in supplies and food, and managing the logistics and housekeeping.
They are making sure the workers have food and water, and WiFi to keep in touch with families back home and friends here, and for entertainment.
The SAF and the Home Team have the resources and the organisation to do this.
Many other public service agencies are also chipping in.
We are paying close attention to the welfare of the foreign workers.
They came to Singapore to work hard for a living, and provide for their families back home.
They have played an important part building our HDB flats, Changi Airport, MRT lines.
We have worked with their employers to make sure they will be paid their salaries, and can remit money home.
We will provide them with the medical care and treatment that they need.
If any of their family members watch my video, let me say this to them: We appreciate the work and contributions of your sons, fathers, husbands in Singapore.
We feel responsible for their well-being.
We will do our best to take care of their health, livelihood and welfare here, and to let them go home, safe and sound, to you.
On behalf of all Singaporeans, I wish you well.
Outside the dorms, the number of cases in the general community has also gone up.
Many of these cases are unlinked.
We do not know how they got infected, or from whom.
So the persons who infected them are probably still out there, and still infecting more people.
As I explained last week, we expected this to happen, and to see the numbers go up even after the circuit breaker took effect.
The reason is most of these cases were probably infected earlier, before the circuit breaker started.
And this is precisely why we need the circuit breaker.
If we all reduce our contact with one another, we also reduce our chances of catching or transmitting the virus.
This will slow down new infections, both linked and unlinked, and after a while the number of new cases will fall.
This has been the experience of countries like China, South Korea, and New Zealand.
They all adopted similar tough measures after a surge in infections.
But it will take some time.
I spoke to Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand yesterday on the phone.
New Zealand has implemented a stringent lock down.
She told me that when they did this, it was only on Day 11 that they started to see new cases coming down.
So we have to be patient, but we also have to be resolute.
This is why I need each of you to take the circuit breaker very seriously.
Stay at home; stop socialising in person with others, even with extended family members who do not live with you.
Keep in touch with them but by other means, for example online, on the phone, writing emails or even letters.
But do not make physical contact, because that is how the virus is spread.
Please comply not just with the letter of the rules, but their spirit.
Some of you have elderly parents who live alone and need your help to go about their daily lives.
We understand your concerns.
There is some flexibility in the law to accommodate your situation, but if it is at all possible, do not visit between households, not even close kin, not even elderly parents.
For example, if you need the grandparents’ help for childcare, then let your kids stay with the grandparents for this period.
Do not drop them off and pick them up every day.
This is to protect our seniors, and also to protect other people in Singapore.
I want to make a special appeal to older Singaporeans.
I am one of you, so I know how you feel.
When we are cooped up at home, we get restless and frustrated.
We want to meet our friends, visit our grandchildren, stretch our legs, and resume our familiar routines – qigong sessions, karaoke groups, hanging out for kopi or a beer with friends.
But please understand: We are telling you to stay at home for your own safety.
Older people are more vulnerable to the virus.
If we catch COVID-19, it is a serious matter.
Our chances of dying are much higher, and if we get infected and spread the virus to our friends around our age, or bring the virus back home to our families, then, we put them in grave danger.
So please stay home.
Use this chance to spend more time with your family, or watch your favourite TV programmes.
If you need anything from outside, ask others to get it for you.
If you have really no choice but to go out for food or necessities, make sure you wear a mask, and stay a safe distance away from everyone else.
Do not linger and do not dawdle – come home once you have completed your errand.
Today is Good Friday.
For Christians, it is a special time to reflect on the sacrifice of Christ.
For Singaporeans, it is a time to acknowledge the sacrifices of our frontline workers, since COVID-19 broke out in Singapore.
And for every one of us, it is a time to make our own sacrifices, to observe the circuit breaker strictly, in order to stop the virus from spreading among us.
I know the measures are very inconvenient.
They also come at high cost to our economy.
But the more strictly we observe the restrictions, the faster they will work, and the sooner we can ease up on them.
If some of us fail to comply strictly with the measures, the circuit breaker will fail, then all our inconvenience, pain and sacrifice will have been in vain.
COVID-19 is very contagious.
It only takes a few people to let down their guard, and the virus will slip through.
We need everyone to play their part.
The next few weeks will be tough.
I will speak to you like this from time to time.
So that you know what the real situation is, what we are thinking, what you can expect and how you can play your part to fight this virus.
The situation will get worse before it gets better, but we have to get through this, before the sun comes out and shines on us again.
For us to get there as soon as possible, please stay at home.
Thank you for your cooperation.
That can I;
At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
Dared to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet--
For so this side of our known world esteem'd him--
Did slay this Fortinbras; who by a seal'd compact,
Well ratified by law and heraldry,
Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
Which he stood seized of, to the conqueror:
Against the which, a moiety competent
Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
Had he been vanquisher; as, by the same covenant,
And carriage of the article design'd,
His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
Of unimproved mettle hot and full,
Hath in the skirts of Norway here and there
Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes,
For food and diet, to some enterprise
That hath a stomach in't; which is no other--
As it doth well appear unto our state--
But to recover of us, by strong hand
And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
So by his father lost: and this, I take it,
Is the main motive of our preparations,
The source of this our watch and the chief head
Of this post-haste and romage in the land.
I think it be no other but e'en so:
Well may it sort that this portentous figure
Comes armed through our watch; so like the king
That was and is the question of these wars.
A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
The graves stood tenantless and the sheeted dead
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets:
As stars with trains of fire and dews of blood,
Disasters in the sun; and the moist star
Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse:
And even the like precurse of fierce events,
As harbingers preceding still the fates
And prologue to the omen coming on,
Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
Unto our climatures and countrymen.--
But soft, behold! lo, where it comes again!
I'll cross it, though it blast me. Stay, illusion!
If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
Speak to me:
If there be any good thing to be done,
That may to thee do ease and grace to me,
Speak to me:
If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
Which, happily, foreknowing may avoid, O, speak!
Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
Extorted treasure in the womb of earth,
For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death,
Speak of it: stay, and speak! Stop it, Marcellus.
It faded on the crowing of the cock.
Some say that ever 'gainst that season comes
Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
The bird of dawning singeth all night long:
And then, they say, no spirit dares stir abroad;
The nights are wholesome; then no planets strike,
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
So have I heard and do in part believe it.
But, look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill:
Break we our watch up; and by my advice,
Let us impart what we have seen to-night
Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
The memory be green, and that it us befitted
To bear our hearts in grief and our whole kingdom
To be contracted in one brow of woe,
Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
That we with wisest sorrow think on him,
Together with remembrance of ourselves.
Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
The imperial jointress to this warlike state,
Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,--
With an auspicious and a dropping eye,
With mirth in funeral and with dirge in marriage,
In equal scale weighing delight and dole,--
Taken to wife: nor have we herein barr'd
Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone
With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
Colleagued with the dream of his advantage,
He hath not fail'd to pester us with message,
Importing the surrender of those lands
Lost by his father, with all bonds of law,
To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
Now for ourself and for this time of meeting:
Thus much the business is: we have here writ
To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,--
Who, impotent and bed-rid, scarcely hears
Of this his nephew's purpose,--to suppress
His further gait herein; in that the levies,
The lists and full proportions, are all made
Out of his subject: and we here dispatch
You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltimand,
For bearers of this greeting to old Norway;
Giving to you no further personal power
To business with the king, more than the scope
Of these delated articles allow.
Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
To give these mourning duties to your father:
But, you must know, your father lost a father;
That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
In filial obligation for some term
To do obsequious sorrow: but to persever
In obstinate condolement is a course
Of impious stubbornness; 'tis unmanly grief;
It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
An understanding simple and unschool'd:
For what we know must be and is as common
As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
Why should we in our peevish opposition
Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
To reason most absurd: whose common theme
Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
From the first corse till he that died to-day,
'This must be so.' We pray you, throw to earth
This unprevailing woe, and think of us
As of a father: for let the world take note,
You are the most immediate to our throne;
And with no less nobility of love
Than that which dearest father bears his son,
Do I impart toward you. For your intent
In going back to school in Wittenberg,
It is most retrograde to our desire:
And we beseech you, bend you to remain
Here, in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
My fellow Americans: Tonight, I want to speak with you about our nation’s unprecedented response to the coronavirus outbreak that started in China and is now spreading throughout the world.
Today, the World Health Organization officially announced that this is a global pandemic.
We have been in frequent contact with our allies, and we are marshalling the full power of the federal government and the private sector to protect the American people.
This is the most aggressive and comprehensive effort to confront a foreign virus in modern history.
I am confident that by counting and continuing to take these tough measures, we will significantly reduce the threat to our citizens, and we will ultimately and expeditiously defeat this virus.
From the beginning of time, nations and people have faced unforeseen challenges, including large-scale and very dangerous health threats.
This is the way it always was and always will be.
It only matters how you respond, and we are responding with great speed and professionalism.
Our team is the best anywhere in the world.
At the very start of the outbreak, we instituted sweeping travel restrictions on China and put in place the first federally mandated quarantine in over 50 years.
We declared a public health emergency and issued the highest level of travel warning on other countries as the virus spread its horrible infection.
And taking early intense action, we have seen dramatically fewer cases of the virus in the United States than are now present in Europe.
The European Union failed to take the same precautions and restrict travel from China and other hotspots.
As a result, a large number of new clusters in the United States were seeded by travelers from Europe.
After consulting with our top government health professionals, I have decided to take several strong but necessary actions to protect the health and wellbeing of all Americans.
To keep new cases from entering our shores, we will be suspending all travel from Europe to the United States for the next 30 days.
The new rules will go into effect Friday at midnight.
These restrictions will be adjusted subject to conditions on the ground.
There will be exemptions for Americans who have undergone appropriate screenings, and these prohibitions will not only apply to the tremendous amount of trade and cargo, but various other things as we get approval.
Anything coming from Europe to the United States is what we are discussing.
These restrictions will also not apply to the United Kingdom.
At the same time, we are monitoring the situation in China and in South Korea.
And, as their situation improves, we will reevaluate the restrictions and warnings that are currently in place for a possible early opening.
Earlier this week, I met with the leaders of health insurance industry who have agreed to waive all copayments for coronavirus treatments, extend insurance coverage to these treatments, and to prevent surprise medical billing.
We are cutting massive amounts of red tape to make antiviral therapies available in record time.
These treatments will significantly reduce the impact and reach of the virus.
Additionally, last week, I signed into law an $8.3 billion funding bill to help CDC and other government agencies fight the virus and support vaccines, treatments, and distribution of medical supplies.
Testing and testing capabilities are expanding rapidly, day by day.
We are moving very quickly.
The vast majority of Americans: The risk is very, very low.
Young and healthy people can expect to recover fully and quickly if they should get the virus.
The highest risk is for elderly population with underlying health conditions.
The elderly population must be very, very careful.
In particular, we are strongly advising that nursing homes for the elderly suspend all medically unnecessary visits.
In general, older Americans should also avoid nonessential travel in crowded areas.
My administration is coordinating directly with communities with the largest outbreaks, and we have issued guidance on school closures, social distancing, and reducing large gatherings.
Smart action today will prevent the spread of the virus tomorrow.
Every community faces different risks and it is critical for you to follow the guidelines of your local officials who are working closely with our federal health experts — and they are the best.
For all Americans, it is essential that everyone take extra precautions and practice good hygiene.
Each of us has a role to play in defeating this virus.
Wash your hands, clean often-used surfaces, cover your face and mouth if you sneeze or cough, and most of all, if you are sick or not feeling well, stay home.
To ensure that working Americans impacted by the virus can stay home without fear of financial hardship, I will soon be taking emergency action, which is unprecedented, to provide financial relief.
This will be targeted for workers who are ill, quarantined, or caring for others due to coronavirus.
I will be asking Congress to take legislative action to extend this relief.
Because of the economic policies that we have put into place over the last three years, we have the greatest economy anywhere in the world, by far.
Our banks and financial institutions are fully capitalized and incredibly strong.
Our unemployment is at a historic low.
This vast economic prosperity gives us flexibility, reserves, and resources to handle any threat that comes our way.
This is not a financial crisis, this is just a temporary moment of time that we will overcome together as a nation and as a world.
However, to provide extra support for American workers, families, and businesses, tonight I am announcing the following additional actions:  I am instructing the Small Business Administration to exercise available authority to provide capital and liquidity to firms affected by the coronavirus.
Effective immediately, the SBA will begin providing economic loans in affected states and territories.
These low-interest loans will help small businesses overcome temporary economic disruptions caused by the virus.
To this end, I am asking Congress to increase funding for this program by an additional $50 billion.
Using emergency authority, I will be instructing the Treasury Department to defer tax payments, without interest or penalties, for certain individuals and businesses negatively impacted.
This action will provide more than $200 billion of additional liquidity to the economy.
Finally, I am calling on Congress to provide Americans with immediate payroll tax relief.
Hopefully they will consider this very strongly.
We are at a critical time in the fight against the virus.
We made a life-saving move with early action on China.
Now we must take the same action with Europe.
We will not delay.
I will never hesitate to take any necessary steps to protect the lives, health, and safety of the American people.
I will always put the wellbeing of America first.
If we are vigilant — and we can reduce the chance of infection, which we will — we will significantly impede the transmission of the virus.
The virus will not have a chance against us.
No nation is more prepared or more resilient than the United States.
We have the best economy, the most advanced healthcare, and the most talented doctors, scientists, and researchers anywhere in the world.
We are all in this together.
We must put politics aside, stop the partisanship, and unify together as one nation and one family.
As history has proven time and time again, Americans always rise to the challenge and overcome adversity.
Our future remains brighter than anyone can imagine.
Acting with compassion and love, we will heal the sick, care for those in need, help our fellow citizens, and emerge from this challenge stronger and more unified than ever before.
God bless you, and God bless America.
Thank you.
Hawking was diagnosed with early-onset ALS when he was just a 21 years old and given an estimated two years to live—an estimate he far surpassed.
The neurodegenerative disease slowly puts the nerves that work to trigger voluntary muscle movement out of working order.
When that happens, the muscles begin to atrophy from a lack of use and eventually stop working altogether.
Even involuntary movements like breathing cease.
In the 1970s, Hawking's condition worsened and he started slurring his words due to his lack of muscle control; he completely lost speech capabilities after a surgery in 1985, according to Biography.com.
At first, Hawking relied on a hand-held clicker for help choosing his words, which were then synthesized to speech.
When he lost the use of his hands, Hawking needed an alternative to a clicker and that's when he switched to the use of a system that detects face movement.
The program run by Intel that allowed Hawking to select characters and words is called ACAT or assistive context-aware toolkit.
An infrared switch that was attached to Hawking's glasses would detect movement he made with his cheek that would stop the cursor or mouse from moving on the screen.
The program allowed Hawking to move his cheek to stop the cursor that automatically scanned a keypad, he wrote on his website.
After he had the first few characters of a word selected, the computer could usually predict what word he was going for based on studies of his past speeches and books.
This allowed Hawking to form full sentences without the use of his voice.
Once he had the entire sentence written, he could then send it to his speech synthesizer which would read the sentence aloud for him.
The program also allowed him to move a cursor around the entire computer giving Hawking access to email, a word processor an even video chatting, said Hawking's website.
The ACAT software that Hawking used was released under a free software license, Wired reported in 2015.
That software can be used by anyone with a disability that makes using a traditional computer difficult.
A speech is a formal address, delivered to an audience, that seeks to convince, persuade, inspire or inform. From historic moments to the present day, the English language has given us some extraordinary examples of the spoken word.
A powerful tool in the right – or wrong – hands, spoken English can, and has, changed the world.
We’ve chosen ten of the most famous speeches in English.
They range from celebrated, world-changing pieces of rhetoric to our personal favourites, but most importantly they still rouse our emotions when we hear them today.
We’ve examined each for the tricks of the oratory trade.
After each speech you’ll find some bullet points outlining its most distinctive rhetorical features, and why a speech writer would include them.
Remember these celebrated rhetoricians the next time you have to give a speech in public – be this at a wedding, award ceremony or business conference.
Scroll down to the end of this post for our essential tips on crafting speeches.
Don’t be afraid of giving speeches in English!
I have a dream that one day down in Alabama, with its vicious racists, with its governor having his lips dripping with the words of interposition and nullification
one day right there in Alabama little black boys and black girls will be able to join hands with little white boys and white girls as sisters and brothers.
I have a dream today.
I have a dream that one day every valley shall be exalted and every hill and mountain shall be made low, the rough places will be made plain, and the crooked places will be made straight, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed and all flesh shall see it together.
In this grave hour, perhaps the most fateful in history, 
I send to every household of my peoples, both at home and overseas, 
this message, spoken with the same depth of feeling for each one of you as if I were able to cross your threshold and speak to you myself.
For the second time in the lives of most of us, we are at war.
Over and over again, we have tried to find a peaceful way out of the differences between ourselves and those who are now our enemies, but it has been in vain.
I am come amongst you, as you see, at this time, not for my recreation and disport,
but being resolved, in the midst and heat of the battle, to live and die amongst you all;
to lay down for my God, and for my kingdom, and my people, my honour and my blood, even in the dust.
I know I have the body but of a weak and feeble woman; but I have the heart and stomach of a king,
and of a king of England too, and think foul scorn that Parma or Spain, or any prince of Europe,
should dare to invade the borders of my realm; to which rather than any dishonour shall grow by me,
I myself will take up arms, I myself will be your general, judge, and
rewarder of every one of your virtues in the field.
Tell General Howard I know his heart.
What he told me before, I have it in my heart.
I am tired of fighting.
Our Chiefs are killed; Looking Glass is dead, Ta Hool Hool Shute is dead.
The old men are all dead.
It is the young men who say yes or no.
He who led on the young men is dead.
It is cold, and we have no blankets; the little children are freezing to death.
My people, some of them, have run away to the hills, and have no blankets, no food.
No one knows where they are – perhaps freezing to death.
I want to have time to look for my children, and see how many of them I can find.
Maybe I shall find them among the dead.
Hear me, my Chiefs! I am tired; my heart is sick and sad.
From where the sun now stands I will fight no more forever.
You have left it to women in your land, the men of all civilised countries have left it to women, to work out their own salvation.
That is the way in which we women of England are doing.
Human life for us is sacred, but we say if any life is to be sacrificed it shall be ours; we won’t do it ourselves,
but we will put the enemy in the position where they will have to choose between giving us freedom or giving us death.
We choose to go to the moon.
We choose to go to the moon in this decade and do the other things,
not because they are easy, but because they are hard,
because that goal will serve to organize and measure the best of our energies and skills,
because that challenge is one that we are willing to accept, one we are unwilling to postpone,
and one which we intend to win, and the others, too.
Be not afeard; the isle is full of noises,
Sounds and sweet airs, that give delight and hurt not.
Sometimes a thousand twangling instruments
Will hum about mine ears, and sometime voices
That, if I then had waked after long sleep,
Will make me sleep again: and then, in dreaming,
The clouds methought would open and show riches
Ready to drop upon me that, when I waked,
I cried to dream again.
Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more;
Or close the wall up with our English dead.
In peace there’s nothing so becomes a man
As modest stillness and humility:
But when the blast of war blows in our ears,
Then imitate the action of the tiger;
Stiffen the sinews, summon up the blood,
Disguise fair nature with hard-favour’d rage
A borrowed book is like a guest in the house;
it must be treated with punctiliousness, with a certain considerate formality.
You must see that it sustains no damage; it must not suffer while under your roof.
You cannot leave it carelessly, you cannot mark it, you cannot turn down the pages,
you cannot use it familiarly.
And then, some day, although this is seldom done,
you really ought to return it.
In 1915, Albert Einstein revolutionized our perception of gravity by introducing
his theory of general relativity.
A few months later, Karl Schwarzschild found the
first exact solution that satisfies Einstein’s field equations.
This solution was subsequently known as the Schwarzschild metric and it describes the geometry of D = 4
space-time surrounding a static, vacuum, massive and spherical object, where D
refers to dimensions of space-time.
If the spherical object is massive enough, it
would curve space-time so much that not even light can escape from it.
Such anobject is known as a black hole and the boundary beyond which light is unable
to escape is known as the event horizon.
At the centre of the Schwarzschild black
hole lies a point that has infinite mass density; such a point is known as a black hole singularity.
It was not until 1963, that an advancement in Einstein’s work was
made; Frank Tangherlini managed to generalize the Schwarzschild metric to D > 4
space-time and the solution is known as the Schwarzschild-Tangherlini metric
The Kerr black hole is a Schwarzschild black hole that is rotating.
Due to the rotation, the space-time exhibits frame dragging and a new boundary, which envelopes the event horizon, can be defined.
Thisboundary is known as an ergosurface and any object that lies beyond the ergosurface
cannot remain stationary with respect to a stationary observer at infinity.
In 1986, Robert Myers together with his supervisor, Malcom Perry, managed to generalize
the Kerr solution to D > 4 space-time and this solution is known as the Myers-Perry (MP) metric
Singapore has rewritten the history taught in secondary school to expand the story of the island state’s birth.
While earlier generations learned a narrative that essentially started in 1819 with the British colonial administrator,
Sir Stamford Raffles, stumbling upon a sleepy Malay fishing village, 13-year-olds now learn of a golden age that started 500 years earlier.
The new story, introduced in January, brings into focus a 300-year period, from 1300 to 1600, when Singapore was a thriving multinational trading hub, with an estimated population of 10,000.
An education ministry official who declined to be named,
in line with government policy, called the change a “shift” rather than a rewrite,
saying it allowed students to “explore Singapore’s origin as a port of call and her connections to the region and the world.”
Behind the revision is the work of John N. Miksic,
an American archaeology professor at the National University of Singapore, or N.U.S., who advised the government on the new school text, “Singapore: The Making of a Nation-State, 1300-1975.”
Professor Miksic has led major archaeological excavations across Southeast Asia,
including a dozen in Singapore over the past 30 years that have yielded eight tons of artifacts — evidence of a precolonial history that was largely neglected until now.
In a recent book, “Singapore and the Silk Road of the Sea,” he laid out detailed archaeological evidence of the settlement’s early importance and prosperity.
One find cited in the book is a large cache of artifacts found at Empress Place, in the central business district near the mouth of the Singapore River, proof that the site was an ancient dock used by merchant traders from China, India and Java, beginning in the 14th century.
Among the booty are a blue and white porcelain-stemmed cup from the Chinese Yuan dynasty (1271-1368) and the “Headless Horseman,” a Javanese-style statuette found among objects dating from the 14th to the 16th centuries.Nearby, Professor Miksic’s team found evidence of the ancient city center framed by an earthen rampart and defenses that Raffles mentioned in letters.
Among 30,000 artifacts from the 14th century were Chinese coins and pottery, Indian glass bangles, and gold jewelry.Why did it take 30 years to change the story? “It takes overwhelming evidence to shift the mind-set of a people from one image of its past to another,” Professor Miksic said in an interview at his campus laboratory.He said Singapore still tended to consider archaeology an “unaffordable luxury.” Private grants have largely financed his work.
Now 67, he worries that his laboratory may close when he retires, for lack of funding.
“It’s a field that is still not that appealing to enough Singaporean students,” he said.
“There’s no money in it.”Professor Miksic gives credit for the new history lesson to former students who have reached positions of authority in academia and in the Ministry of Education.
Derek Heng, a former student who is a history professor at the recently created Yale-N.U.S.
College, called the artifacts “tactile, visual ways to look at the past and reposition Singapore in history.”Professor Heng surmised that one reason it had taken so long to change the narrative may have been the government’s fears of communal conflict in the 1960s and ’70s.
Indonesia engaged in “Konfrontasi” — violent confrontation against the newly formed Malaysian state — in the early 1960s, which was followed by Malaysia’s ejection of Singapore in 1965.
“There was a deliberate attempt not to talk about links to the ethnicity of the past,” Professor Heng said.
“Now we are more confident to say we were once a Malay polity cutting straight down through Asia.”Prof. Brian Farrell, who heads the history department at N.U.S., takes Mr. Heng’s idea a step further.
“If Singapore before 1800 was a sleepy backwater, the Chinese majority could say, ‘We built Singapore; before it was a blank slate,”’ he said.
Another factor that delayed a rewriting was a 200-year period of decline, a sort of historical “black hole,” between the formerly thriving emporium and the establishment of the 19th-century British trading port, according to Kwa Chong Guan, an adjunct associate professor at N.U.S. who also advised on the textbook revisions.
“Until a connection could be made, the tons of archaeological shards Miksic excavated remained of antiquarian interest,” he said.
In 2009, the professors Kwa, Heng and Tan Tai Yong published evidence from written Malay sources that bridged the gap and put Professor Miksic’s artifacts into a larger maritime trade framework.
Their book, “Singapore: A 700-Year History — From Early Emporium To World City,” linked the port to the larger sultanate of Johor-Riau in the Strait of Malacca.
Concurrently, Peter Borschberg, also a professor at N.U.S., published another important link: Dutch and Portuguese maritime accounts and maps showed that Singapore was on European radars well before Raffles arrived.
Other factors also may help explain the timing of the rewrite.
“Now is a good time,” Professor Heng said.
“There’s a need to develop a collective social memory.
It’s become a political issue.”
Professor Heng suggested that one catalyst for change might have been a government announcement in 2011 of plans to run a motorway through Bukit Brown cemetery, a colonial-era Chinese municipal burial ground, slating hundreds of tombs for exhumation.
Thousands of citizens signed petitions against the plan.
“We have a fast-paced, highly urbanized society where people are getting disoriented,” he said.
“There’s a huge momentum to look at heritage and our historical legacy.”
Singaporeans, he thinks, will feel more rooted if they see their early predecessors as part of a longer regional legacy, rather than a British colonial transplant.
“It’s time to sink new, deep psychological roots and construct an identity for ourselves,” he said.
Professor Miksic says the controversy over Bukit Brown proved that tangible heritage is important.
“People want more than prosperity,” he said.
“Once you have enough to live on, you want something to live for: identity, a desire to know your ancestors.
It’s an innate part of what it means to be human.”
Demographic change is another relevant issue.
A government white paper recently reaffirmed proposals to expand the population from 5.3 million to 6.9 million, raising hackles among those who blame inward migration for rising inflation, high home prices, crowded roads and public transport systems and a perceived lack of a level playing field in competition for top jobs.
While the government has slowed its migration plans, further inflows appear inevitable if Singapore is to remain competitive and position itself as a leading global city.
Mr. Kwa argues that the rewriting of the island’s history will help citizens accept the population explosion and become more inclusive.
“Every generation has to rewrite its history,” he said.
While it used to suit Singapore to see itself as a city-state with a British heritage, modern Singapore needs a different interpretation of history to reinforce a more global perspective, he suggested.
Professor Heng also sees the opening of Singapore to new migrants as a stimulus for reassessing its history: “If inward migration continues, we need to know who we are or we will get lost,” he said.
Professor Miksic goes a step further.
“A short history puts a nation on shaky ground; a shallowly rooted place could be overturned quickly,” he said.
“If you can show a long cohabitation between the Malays and the Chinese, it proves you have a pretty stable arrangement.”
The new syllabus is also designed to repair Singapore’s educational image, he said.
Students are now being encouraged to interpret primary sources themselves to stimulate their reasoning and analysis, rather than relying on old-style rote learning: “One of the objectives is to overcome the stereotype that Singaporeans are not good at creativity,” he said.
“There’s a good chance this will change the mind-set.”
Professor Kwa said he believed that Yale-N.U.S., a liberal arts college — the first in Singapore — established in 2011 as a collaboration between Yale University and the National University of Singapore, would help build a new generation of Singaporean historians, raising the profile of humanities and softening Singapore’s image as a nation preoccupied by science and technology.
Already, he said, more government scholarships are going to liberal arts candidates for study in the United States and Europe.
Student attitudes have become more skeptical in the past decade, said Quek Ser Hwee, a professor of history at the National University of Singapore, adding that no student now would ask her if she feared arrest for discussing heterodox views.
Opinions expressed on the department blog are now quite wide-ranging, she observed, though they stop short of breaching the “out of bounds” limits that once were rigorously policed by colonial and post-colonial administrations: “It’s part of our DNA to know them,” she said.
Yet for all the cultural shifts, the number of students majoring in history has barely changed, possibly reflecting parental preferences for “concrete” degrees, such as law or medicine.
“Singapore is still an iron rice bowl,” Professor Farrell said, “a place to make a living.”
If you have come across the PASCAL Visual Object Classes (VOC) and MS Common Objects in Context (COCO) challenge, or dabbled with projects involving information retrieval and re-identification (ReID), you might then be quite familiar with a metric called mAP.
The mean average precision (mAP) of a set of queries is defined by Wikipedia as such
What the formula is essentially telling us is that, for a given query, q, we calculate its corresponding AP, and then the mean of the all these AP scores would give us a single number, called the mAP, which quantifies how good our model is at performing the query.
This definition baffles people (like me) who are just starting out in this field. I had questions like what is this set of queries? And what does AP mean? Is it just an average of the precision?
This article hopes to address these questions and calculate mAP for both object detection and information retrieval tasks. This article would also be exploring why mAP is an appropriate and commonly used metric for information retrieval and object detection tasks.
Precision and recall are two commonly used metric to judge the performance of a given classification model. To understand mAP, we would need to first review precision and recall.
Precision of a given class in classification, a.k.a. positive predicted value, is given as the ratio of true positive (TP) and the total number of predicted positives. The formula is given as such:
Similarly, the recall, a.k.a. true positive rate or sensitivity, of a given class in classification, is defined as the ratio of TP and total of ground truth positives. The formula is given as such:
Just by looking at the formulas, we could suspect that for a given classification model, there lies a trade-off between its precision and recall performance. If we are using a neural network, this trade-off can be adjusted by the model’s final layer softmax threshold.
For our precision to be high, we would need to decrease our number of FP, by doing so, it will decrease our recall. Similarly, by decreasing our number of FN would increase our recall and decrease our precision. Very often for information retrieval and object detection cases, we would want our precision to be high (our predicted positives to be TP).
Precision and recall are commonly used along with other metrics such as accuracy, F1-score, specificity, a.k.a. true negative rate (TNR), receiver operating characteristics (ROC), lift and gain.
However, all these metrics fail when it comes to determining if a model is performing well in information retrieval or object detection tasks. This where mAP comes to the rescue!
It is important to note that the calculations of mAP for objection detection and information retrieval tasks are subtly different. The following sections shall demonstrate how the calculations and some discussions to why they are done as such.
A typical task in information retrieval is for a user to provide a query to a database and retrieving information very similar to the query. Let’s now perform a calculation for AP with an example with three ground truth positives (GTP).
The overall AP for this query is 0.7. One thing to note is that since we know that there are only three GTP, the AP@5 would equal to overall AP. A general AP@k formula can be written as such:
How can I just let you walk away,
Just let you leave without a trace,
When I'm standing taking every breath,
With you, ooohhh,
You're the only one who really knew me,
At all.
How can you just walk away from me,
When all I can do is watch you leave,
Cause we shared the laughter and the pain,
And even shared the tears,
You're the only one who really knew me at all.
So take a look at me now,
There's just an empty space,
There's nothing left here to remind me,
Just the memory of your face,
So take a look at me now,
There's just an empty space,
If you're coming back to me it's against all odds,
And that's what I've got to face.
I wish I could just make you turn around,
Turn around and see me cry,
There's so much I need to say to you,
So many reasons why,
You're the only one who really knew me at all.
Yeah, ooooh...
We started as friends
But something happened inside me
Now I'm reading into everything
But there's no sign you hear the lightning, baby
You don't ever notice me turning on my charm
Or wonder why I'm always where you are
I've made it obvious
Done everything but sing it
(I've crushed on you so long, but on and on you get me wrong)
I'm not so good with words
And since you never notice
The way that we belong
I'll say it in a love song
I've heard you talk about
(Heard you talk about)
How you want someone just like me (Bryan echo: just like me)
But everytime I ask you out
(Time I ask you out)
We never move pass friendly, no no
And you don't ever notice how I stare when we're alone
Or wonder why I keep you on the phone
Not sure if you know this
But when we first met
I got so nervous I couldn't speak
In that very moment
I found the one and
My life had found its missing piece
So as long as I live I'll love you
Will have and hold you
You look so beautiful in white
And from now to my very last breath
This day I'll cherish
You look so beautiful in white
Tonight
So here we stand
In our secret place
With a sound of the crowd
So far away
And you take my hand
And it feels like home
We both understand
It's where we belong
So how do I say?
Do I say goodbye?
We both have our dreams
We both wanna fly
So let's take tonight
To carry us through
The lonely times
I'll always look back
As I walk away
This memory
Will last for eternity
And all of our tears
Will be lost in the rain
When I've found my way back
To your arms again
But until that day
You know you are
The queen of my heart
Just a smile and the rain is gone
Can hardly believe it (yeah)
There's an angel standing next to me
Reaching for my heart
Just a smile and there's no way back
Can hardly believe it (yeah)
But there's an angel calling me
Reaching for my heart
I know, that I'll be OK now
This time it's real
I lay my love on you
It's all I wanna do
Every time I breathe I feel brand new
You open up my heart
Show me all your love, and walk right through
As I lay my love on you
I was lost in a lonely place
Could hardly believe it (yeah)
Holding on to yesterdays
Far, far too long
Now I believe it's OK 'cause this time it's real
Everybody's looking for that something
One thing that makes it all complete
You'll find it in the strangest places
Places you never knew it could be
Some find it in the face of their children
Some find it in their lover's eyes
Who can deny the joy it brings
When you've found that special thing
You're flying without wings
Some find it sharing every morning
Some in their solitary nights
You'll find it in the words of others
A simple line can make you laugh or cry
I wanna know
Who ever told you I was letting go
The only joy that I have ever known
Girl, they were lying
Just look around
And all of the people that we used to know
Have just given up, they wanna let it go
But we're still trying
So you should know this love we share was never made to die
I'm glad we're on this one way street just you and I
Just you and I
I'm never gonna say goodbye
Cos I never wanna see you cry
I swore to you my love would remain
And I swear it all over again and I
I'm never gonna treat you bad
Cos I never wanna see you sad
I swore to share your joy and your pain
And I swear it all over again
Some people say
That everything has got its place in time
Even the day must give way to the night
But I'm not buying
Cos in your eyes
I see a love that burns eternally
And if you see how beautiful you are to me
You'll know I'm not lying
Day after day
Time passed away
And I just can't get you off my mind
Nobody knows, I hide it inside
I keep on searching but I can't find
The courage to show to letting you know
I've never felt so much love before
And once again I'm thinking about
Taking the easy way out
But if I let you go I will never know
What my life would be holding you close to me
Will I ever see you smiling back at me? ([Shane:] oh yeah)
How will I know
Night after night I hear myself say
Why can't this feeling just fade away
There's no one like you (no one like you)
You speak to my heart (speak to my heart)
It's such a shame we're worlds apart
Saying I love you,
Is not the words,
I want to hear from you,
It's not that I want you,
Not to say but if you only knew,
How easy,
it would be to show me how you feel,
More than words,
is all you have to do,
to make it real,
Then you wouldn't have to say,
that you love me,
Cause I'd already know,
Baby I know the story
I've seen the picture
It's written all over your face
Tell me, what's the secret
That you've been hiding
And who's gonna take my place
I should've seen it comin'
I should've read the signs
Anyway, I guess it's over
Can't believe that I'm the fool again
I thought this love would never end
How was I to know
You never told me
Can't believe that I'm the fool again
And I who thought you were my friend
How was I to know, you never told me
Baby, you should've called me
When you were lonely
When you needed me to be there
Sadly, you never gave me
Too many chances
To show you how much I care
If only you could see the tears in the world you left behind
If only you could heal my heart just one more time
Even when I close my eyes
There's an image of your face
And once again I come to realize
You're a loss I can't replace
Soledad
It's a keeping for the lonely
Since the day that you were gone
Why did you leave me
Walking down the streets of Nothingville
Where our love was young and free
Can't believe just what an empty place
It has come to be
I would give my life away
If it could only be the same
'Cause I can't still the voice inside of me
That is calling out your name
I wanna call the stars
Down from the sky
I wanna live a day
That never dies
I wanna change the world
Only for you
All the impossible
I wanna do
I wanna hold you close
Under the rain
I wanna kiss your smile
And feel the pain
I know what's beautiful
Looking at you
In a world of lies
You are the truth
And baby
Everytime you touch me
I become a hero
I'll make you safe
No matter where you are
And bring you
Everything you ask for
Nothing is above me
I'm shining like a candle in the dark
When you tell me that you love me
I wanna make you see
Just what I was
Show you the loneliness
And what it does
You walked into my life
To stop my tears
Everything's easy now
I have you here
Eyes
Like a sunrise
Like a rainfall
Down my soul
And I wonder
I wonder why you look at me like that
What you're thinking
What's behind
Don't tell me
But it feels like love
I'm gonna take this moment
And make it last forever
I'm gonna give my heart away
And pray we'll stay together
'Cause you're the one good reason
You're the only girl that I need
'Cause you're more beautiful than I have ever seen
I'm gonna take this night
And make it evergreen
Touch
Like an angel
Like velvet to my skin
And I wonder
I wonder why you wanna stay that night
What you're dreaming
What's behind
Don't tell me
But it feels like love
This isn't goodbye, even as I watch you leave, this isn't goodbye
I swear I won't cry, even as tears fill my eyes, I swear I won't cry
Any other girl, I'd let you walk away
Any other girl, I'm sure I'd be ok
Tell me what makes a man
Wanna give you all his heart
Smile when you're around
And cry when you're apart
If you know what makes a man
Wanna love you the way I do
Girl you gotta let me know
So I can get over you
What makes her so right?
Is it the sound of her laugh?
That look in her eyes
When do you decide?
She is the dream that you seek
That force in your life
When you apologize, no matter who was wrong
When you get on your knees if that would bring her home
I have a dream, a song to sing
To help me cope with anything
If you see the wonder (wonder) of a fairy tale
You can take the future even if you fail
I believe in angels
Something good in everything I see
I believe in angels
When I know the time is right for me
I'll cross the stream - I have a dream
I have a dream (have a dream), a fantasy (fantasy)
To help me through (help me through) reality (reality)
And my destination (destination) makes it worth the while
Pushing through the darkness
No one knows 'bout the things that I've been through with you
There were times I'd drive you nearly mental
But when you're mad, you're still beautiful
And I know that I'm punching way above
So lucky that we fell in love
Sometimes I wonder am I enough?
'Cause you could have someone without a belly or a temper
Perfect teeth, hair growing where it's meant to
You know my lips are all I can hold against you
This is all that I'll ever need, you and I
Hello, my love
I've been searching for someone like you
For most my life
Happiness ain't a thing I'm used to
You could have fallen hard for anyone
Plenty of fish in the sea, hey now
For all of time, now I know
It's just my angel and me
You and I had something special, baby
Something that you only see on movie screens
I know lately I've been missing you like crazy
Oh why, why d'you let me in just to let me go?
Most guys will get high when feeling low
But I don't think that that's the way to go
Sometimes I'll be sitting on my own
Thinking 'bout life, thinking 'bout you and me
How do you lose the one you love?
After giving it all, you gave it up
And maybe my love wasn't enough
You think you know, but you never can
How do you lose your only plan?
Oh darling, just give me one more chance
And I'll give you everything I have
I'll try to be a better man
I felt things when we were naked
I saw an angel, but they've hidden their wings
I know everyone's got that special baby
Oh I, now I only see you in my dreams
Took my hand,
Touched my heart,
Held me close.
You were always there
By my side.
Night and day,
Through it all.
Baby, come what may.
Swept away on a wave of emotion,
Oh, we're caught in the eye of the storm.
And whenever you smile,
I can hardly believe that you're mine,
Believe that you're mine.
This love is unbreakable.
It's unmistakable.
And each time I look in your eyes,
I know why.
This love is untouchable.
A feeling my heart just can't deny.
Each time I look in your eyes,
Oh, baby, I know why
This love is unbreakable.
Shared the laughter,
Shared the tears.
We both know
We'll go on from here.
'Cause together we are strong.
In my arms:
That's where you belong.
I've been touched by the hands of an angel.
I've been blessed by the power of love.
Stay with me
Don't fall asleep too soon
The angels can wait for a moment
Come real close
Forget the world outside
Tonight we're alone
It's finally you and I
It wasn't meant to feel like this
Not without you
Cos when I look at my life
How the pieces fall into place
It just wouldn't rhyme without you
When I see how my path
Seem to end up before your face
The state of my heart
The place where we are
Was written in the stars
Don't be afraid
I'll be right by your side
Through the laughter and pain
Together we're bound to fly
I wasn't meant to love like this
Not without you
I remember all my life
Raining down as cold as ice
Shadows of a man
A face through a window
Crying in the night
The night goes into
Morning, just another day
Happy people pass my way
Looking in their eyes
I see a memory
I never realized
How happy you made me oh Mandy
I remember all my life
Raining down as cold as ice
Shadows of a man
A face through a window
Crying in the night
The night goes into
Morning, just another day
Happy people pass my way
Looking in their eyes
I see a memory
I never realized
How happy you made me oh Mandy
Stuntin' all day
Swag on a hundred million
Private plane like Lady Gaga
Sip champagne like Lady Gaga
Sold-out show like Lady Gaga
Big bank-roll like Lady Gaga
Iced-out wrist, iced-out chain
I'm deep off in the fuckin' game,
Everybody knows my name,
Diamond ring like Lady Gaga
Diamond ring in your face,
Fuck your face, trick bitch
Fuck your life, trick bitch
I'm caked up and I'll fuck your wife
Fuck your life you bitch ass trick
I'm posted it in the trap
Strapped with the AK
Aimin' at your fitted cap
Cake like Lady Gaga
Superfruit, oh, Gaga
I've had a little bit too much (o-o-o-o)
All of the people start to rush, start to rush babe
A dizzy twister dance
Can't find my drink or man
Where are my keys?
I lost my phone (o-o-o-o)
Just dance!
Gonna be okay
Let's have some fun this beat is sick
I wanna take a ride on your disco stick
Let's play a lovegame, play a lovegame
Do you want love, or you want fame
Are you in the game, dans le lovegame
P-p-p-poker face, p-p-poker face
I want your love and
I want your revenge
You and me could write a bad romance
Just a second
It's my favourite song they're gonna play
And I cannot text you with
A drink in my hand, eh-eh-eh-eh
Stop callin', stop callin'
I don't wanna think any more
I left my head and my heart on the dance floor
I know that we are young
And I know that you may love me
But I just can't be with you like this anymore
Alejandro
She's got both hands
In her pocket
And she won't look at you, won't look at you, no
She hides true love
En su bolsillo
She's got a halo around her finger
Around you
Show me your teeth, (Alejandro, Alejandro) oh
Show me your (Ale-Alejandro, Ale-Alejandro)
I'm gonna marry the night
I won't give up on my life
I'm a warrior queen
Live passionately tonight
I'm gonna marry the night
I'm beautiful in my way
'Cause God makes no mistakes
I'm on the right track, baby
I was born this way, hey
Oh there ain't no other way
Baby I was born this way
Oh, right track, baby
I was born this way
Judas, Juda-a-as
There ain't no reason you and me should be alone
Tonight yeah baby, tonight yeah baby
I got a reason that you-hoo should take me home tonight
Alright (alright)
I'm on the edge of glory, and I'm hanging on a moment with you
I'm on the edge with you
I live for the applause, applause, applause
I live for the applause-plause
Live for the applause-plause
Live for the way that you cheer and scream for me
The applause, applause, applause
Venus (G.U.Y.)
I wanna be that guy (G.U.Y.)
It wasn't love,
It was a perfect illusion (perfect illusion)
Mistaken for love, it wasn't love
It was a perfect illusion (perfect illusion)
I'll undress you, 'cause you're tired
Cover you as you desire
When you fall asleep inside my arms
May not have the fancy things
But I'll give you everything
You could ever want, it's in my arms
And I bow down to pray
I try to make the worse seem better
I've got a hundred million reasons to walk away
But baby, I just need one good one to stay
I will be right by your side
If I can't find the cure, I'll
I'll fix you with my love
No matter what you know, I'll
I'll fix you with my love
And if you say you're okay
I'm gonna heal you anyway
Promise I'll always be there
Promise I'll be the cure (be the cure)
Oh, (no) be the cure (cure) yea, yea
I've got a hundred million reasons to walk away
But baby, I just need one good one to stay
Is this the real life?
Is this just fantasy?
Caught in a landslide,
No escape from reality.
Open your eyes,
Look up to the skies and see,
I'm just a poor boy, I need no sympathy,
Because I'm easy come, easy go,
Little high, little low,
Any way the wind blows doesn't really matter to me, to me.
Mama, just killed a man,
Put a gun against his head,
Pulled my trigger, now he's dead.
Mama, life had just begun,
But now I've gone and thrown it all away.
Mama, ooh,
Didn't mean to make you cry,
If I'm not back again this time tomorrow,
Carry on, carry on as if nothing really matters.
Too late, my time has come,
Sends shivers down my spine,
Body's aching all the time.
Goodbye, everybody, I've got to go,
Gotta leave you all behind and face the truth.
Mama, ooh (any way the wind blows),
I don't wanna die,
I sometimes wish I'd never been born at all.
I see a little silhouetto of a man,
Scaramouche, Scaramouche, will you do the Fandango?
Thunderbolt and lightning,
Very, very frightening me.
(Galileo) Galileo.
(Galileo) Galileo,
Galileo Figaro
Magnifico-o-o-o-o.
I'm just a poor boy, nobody loves me.
He's just a poor boy from a poor family,
Spare him his life from this monstrosity.
Easy come, easy go, will you let me go?
Bismillah! No, we will not let you go. (Let him go!)
Bismillah! We will not let you go. (Let him go!)
Oh, mama mia, mama mia (Mama mia, let me go.)
Beelzebub has a devil put aside for me, for me, for me.
So you think you can stone me and spit in my eye?
So you think you can love me and leave me to die?
Oh, baby, can't do this to me, baby,
Just gotta get out, just gotta get right outta here.
Nothing really matters,
Anyone can see,
Nothing really matters,
Nothing really matters to me.
Any way the wind blows.
On a plane from Berlin to Tokyo, Mexico, San Francisco
Tearing up the towns where they told her not to go
Givin' them life, so right from head to toe
Bringin' that heat when it's 26 below
Blowin' up TV and the radio
Next level vibes, so fly, you can't ignore
So sky-high 'cause she's so super dope
Intergalactic, Earth to Pluto
Superstar boss all through the cosmos
Mashin' you like an Idaho Potato
Whippin' you up like a space tornado
If all of the kings had their queens on the throne
We would pop champagne and raise a toast
To all of the queens who are fighting alone
Baby, you're not dancin' on your own
Can't live without me, you wanna' but you can't, no, no, no
Think it's funny, but honey, can't run this show on your own
I can feel my body shake, there's only so much I can take
I'll show you how a real queen behaves, oh
No damsel in distress, don't need to save me
Once I start breathin' fire, you can't tame me
And you might think I'm weak without a sword
But if I had one, it'd be bigger than yours
Disobey me, then baby, it's off with your head
Gonna' change it and make it a world you won't forget
No damsel in distress, don't need to save me
Once I start breathin' fire, you can't tame me
And you might think I'm weak without a sword
But I'm stronger than I ever was before
She was more like a beauty queen
From a movie scene
I said, "Don't mind, but what do you mean
I am the one
Who will dance on the floor in the round?"
She said I am the one
Who will dance on the floor in the round
She told me her name was Billie Jean
As she caused a scene
Then every head turned with eyes that dreamed of being the one
Who will dance on the floor in the round
People always told me, "Be careful of what you do.
And don't go around breaking young girls' hearts."
And mother always told me, "A-be careful of who you love,
And be careful of what you do
'Cause the lie becomes the truth."
Billie Jean is not my lover
She's just a girl who claims that I am the one
But the kid is not my son
For forty days and for forty nights
Law was on her side
But who can stand
When she's in demand
Her schemes and plans
'Cause we danced on the floor in the round
So take my strong advice
Just remember to always think twice
(Do think twice, do think twice.)
She told, "My baby, we'd danced 'til three."
Then she looked at me
Then showed a photo of a baby cry
His eyes looked like mine, oh, no
Do a dance on the floor in the round, baby
Hello, everyone!
This is one of the weirdest sites: or your money back!
We have ZIM, neopets, music, and much, much, more.
E-mail us for questions, comments, complaints and information.
Why not click on the Very Weird Stuff link to see more, or click on the music link? We have halloween and christmas pictures on the NeoPics link.
Cheese is not a wild thing!!!!!!!!!
Now I have decided to go for a world record.
I will try to make the longest web page ever, made completely out of text!
Won't that be fun? I will just type, and type, and never, ever use copy and paste.
Wow...I really must be bored.
Just goes to show what boredom can do to you.
Any way, that's it for now.
Wait, no it isn't, I still have to keep going, and going, and going.
Because I do.
THE REST OF THE STUFF I TYPE WILL BE COMPLETLY IN CAPS JUST BECAUSE I CAN.
THAT IS ALL.
SEEYA!
Hi, I'm back.
So far this is nowhere near the world record.
I think.
I don't exactly know where it is...oh, well.
I'll just have to do the very best that I can.
No one is really coming here, anyway.
So it doesn't matter.
By the way, TAB is a worthwhile, community-service organization.
The form link is to a 100% fake TAB registration form that you can fill out just for laughs.
I can't believe I'm bothering to do this.
I have very low expectations of my site.
None ever comes here, I could do this all day long and I still wouldn't have any more hits.
This is just a pointless excursive in spelling errors and grammatical imprecision.
May your day be shiney!
The following is an extremely weird poem-thingy that I wrote when I was in a relatively weird mood:
never mind that noise my dear can anyone pass the cheese only if you say pretty please oh, boy do I have to sneeze.
why must everyone always rhyme, why I’m a poet and don’t I know it? what I fear comes right after here not this life or the next will I ever be able to pass the test? we’re stuck in here, (alone my dear) and we’ll problem never get out so don’t start to shout.
it’s dark and I want to go home is where the heart was where is it now? we’ll never know but oh crap it’s starting to snow and it’s time to show and tell about the well that you found last summer at camp when it was damp it was near the ramp oh god why must this be I liked that tree but now it’s gone, farewell so long I’ll miss you as long as you write but then I’m afraid to say good-night.
my dear there’s nothing to fear that’s only a box that’s made of blocks next to the wagon that looks like a dragon why are you shaking it’s your fear that is making you shiver and act all a quiver.
don’t you know that you only need be afraid of fear and never anything here and certainly not a post that acts like a ghost?
See, very weird.
At least it fills up my word quota for the day.
Not that I exactly have a word quota for the day.
It just sounded very professional to say it.
Anyway, I still don't think that anyone is actually coming here.
You'd have to be an absolute loser (or really bored) to come here.
I'd probley come here, but that isn't much of a surprise.
After all, I've been to the Really Really Big Button That Doesn't Do Anything website over 50 times.
Pathetic.
But, whatever.
As long as I'm happy, right.
Humor the crazy person, okay? Oh, guess what? According to someone you problem don't know, this is the second most pointless website ever!
Next to the Really Big Button, of course.
I feel special.
Come on everyone, group hug.
Okay, now I'm starting to scare myself...I'm gonna quit for today.
Seeya.
Now I'm back.
Is this getting confusing to you? Too bad.
Hey, I'm once again: back.
I don't suppose you fell for that little thing about the refresh button.
After all, you're a responsible, intelligent person who apparently has a lot of time on your hands.
Well, you can't possibly have more time than I do.
I mean, after all, I made this site.
You're only browsing it.
And most people don't even come here.
Not even my friends...*sniffle* The just ignore this poor, pathetic little page.
All they do is fill out the TAB form and leave.
I think.
Maybe they're here right now! HI! HOW ARE YOU DOING? I'M FINE! THANKS FOR COMING! YES, I'M YELLING! Who am I kidding.
This page won't get a single hit, unless I bribe people...now that has possibilities.
Okay, fill out the TAB form, so I have proof that you bothered to come here and...uh...I'll...uh...send you a sandwich? Please allow 6-8 weeks for delivery.
I'm bored.
I'm gonna go hug a moose.
MOOSE! I love-d you moose! Hey, I'm back again! Yea...*waits for applause* okay! Now I want all you loyal fans...*cricket chirps* to go to the link to see what I'm like.
I took a whole bunch of personality quizzes and posted them there.
I'm an evil villain, kitty and a freakazoid so far.
And I only took the quiz once, too.
Spooky how accurate they are...anyway, I command you to go! I'm going.
I'm back.
I'm gonna start counting how many times I say back.
Let's see: 1...2...3...4...5! Wow.
I must really be desperate for something to do.
I now officially have proof that someone has been here! It was one of my friends.
Apparently this page really is getting long, because my friend said something to that effect.
Maybe.
Anyway, moving on! I'm just basically typing nothing.
Just like all those reports people have to do.
You know? With a specific number of words.
They start out with half that number, and then just fill in words until they have the right amount.
I salute those people.
You're great tradition is being carried out here, on the second most pointless site ever! Well.
Maybe eventually some weird, bored person will wander onto my site on accident and be mildly entertained be my site until they wander onto a live video feed of a coffee maker.
Or maybe not.
I only know that I'm entertaining me, which was my original goal.
So.
I've done what I've set out to accomplish.
Yea, me! I'm so special.
You see, most people, they don't like reading or writing.
So if you're not most people, you've made it down this far without skipping, skimming or getting the spark notes version.
(Which I think does not exist) My point is, if you've bothered to read this, then, (like me) you probley have also read the ketchup bottle so many times that you have it down verbatim.
Look verbatim up.
It's a word.
But, you should know that, since you like reading.
Or maybe you're just skimming.
Anyway, there's nothing wrong with reading food labels.
You might be asked a question about them on a quiz show.
And now, for the million-dollar question: How many calories are there in a single serving of Mustard? I can just see it now...It could be called Know-Your-Food.
Or You are What you Eat.
It'd probley be as popular as those game shows that no one's ever heard of.
Speaking of food, what's up with pie? There's strawberry pie, apple, pumpkin and so many others, but there is no grape pie! I know.
I'm just as upset about this unfortunate lack of development in the pie division.
Think about it.
Grapes are used to make jelly, jam, juice and raisins.
What makes them undesirable for pie? Would they dry into raisins? Couldn't you just stick some jelly in a piecrust and bake it? It just doesn't make any sense.
Another thing that bothers me is organ grinders.
You know, the foreign guys with the bellhop hats and the little music thingy and the cute little monkey with the bellhop hat who collects the money? Okay.
They're basically begging on the street.
How did they ever afford an organ-thingy? Wouldn't it make more sense to get a kazoo, if you're broke? And if they're so poor, what possessed them to buy a monkey? I mean, I don't think I could afford a monkey, and I'm not exactly on the streets.
Obviously I at least have a computer...so, back to the organ grinders.
I would have sold the monkey and the organ and been able to eat for at least a year.
Or, if I was weirder than I am, I could at least kill the monkey with the organ and eat it.
Why on earth did they keep the monkey? It must have cost a fortune to feed...not to mention the mess.
That's just one of those many facts of life that are better left mysteries.
Especially since no one but me would ask the question.
I better go.
I think I hear a monkey...Okay...now I'm back.
That's the sixth time I've said back! I realize that this longest text ever must be very boring and not worth anyone's time.
But I'd like to take this time to thank the 2 and 1/2 people in the entire universe who have bothered to read this entire thing.
I'm not exactly sure who they are, but: thanks! Right now, my spacebar is malfunctioning...that's not good...I have to press it two or three times just to insert a freaking space.
Maybe the evil little faeries with the sharp little teeth have put their evil faerie dust on my computer.
Or maybe not.
This is too frustrating.
Goodbye for now...Now I'm back.
And still frustrated.
But for a different reason.
Today I had the misfortune of playing a Treasure Planet game on neopets.com It was terrible.
Apparently the point of the game was to get your character to shout "Whoo-Hoo!" as many times as possible before you splattered your brains on the rocks, all the while listening to a soundtrack that is similar to a dying ceiling fan.
Of course, when I started out I accidentally hit the rocks approximately three million times.
Halfway though I used my four remaining brain-cells to decide that the game was dumb.
So my goal changed from surviving to laughing evilly while my character died.
So the game naturally did everything it could to preserve my life.
The stupid game is still going on and I refuse to quit because I want my points.
My character is actually dodging the stupid rocks better now then when I controlled him.
I hate irony.
Seeya.
Okay.
Now I'm back again.
Today I added an update page, which is basically a less chaotic, outlined version of this without all the ranting.
It's more like techno talk about arrays and how much I suck and whether or not the Braves will win this year.
Okay, the whole braves thing is made up.
But everything else I've said so far is true.
I think.
Maybe I should start on a boring disclaimer...Eh-hem.
All contents of this site were designed for entertainment purposes only.
Any use thereof that is not stated in the above mentioned statement would make the author, hereby referred to as Patron Saint of Paper Clips, very angry.
Should you violate the purpose of this site: i.e.
become not entertained, the Patron Saint of Paper Clips will be forced to take drastic measures.
This is specified in Code: 343 of the Flaming Chicken Handbook.
Ooooo…that’s a great idea! I’m gonna start quoting from the Flaming Chicken Handbook! Code: 343 of the Flaming Chicken Handbook states that the Patron Saint of Paper Clips (that’s me) is allowed to cause vague, pain like sensations while the offending person (or alien life form, dog, etc.) isn’t paying attention.
Now I have a purpose in life! To make up quotes from the non-existent Flaming Chicken Handbook, which I’m sure you have a copy of.
No? Too bad.
It’s in the mail, I promise! Now I must take my leave…and remember.
Cheese is watching.
Okay...I'm back...I think that eventually half of this thing will consist of the word back over and over again...that's just weird.
Which fits the motif of the rest of the site.
There's even a money back guarantee.
Isn’t' that nice? See? Now no one can ever say that I don't take care of my viewers.
Especially since I don't have viewers.
I have readers.
Wait...I really don't even know if anyone bothers to read this.
Even if I put it in a less chaotic, more user-friendly format people would still ignore this because it involves: reading.
Yes.
Sad to admit, but the majority of people would rather read the summary at the back of a book rather than the whole book itself.
What has the world come to? It's pathetic.
Especially since I'm bothering to write all this.
It's not fair! Why can't I have more readers?! All the other internet writers have nothing on me, except they're better at advertising, having a central theme/plot and basically more talented.
Whereas I'm more into the whole ranting and raving stage right now.
Plus, I am horrible at spelling.
Which is bad.
Thank the powers that be for spell-check.
The single greatest invention of the computer gods.
I'm getting bored, so I think I'm done for the day.
May your day be shiney! I'm back again! And I feel weird! I found at that yet another one of my friends is reading this.
Creepy.
Just how much time do they have on their hands.
Perhaps their just trying to be nice.
I can just see it now...an organization devoted not to feeding the hungry, or peace, or love or whatever, but to giving recognition to all those poor, pathetic, unpopular websites.
I wonder what it's name would be.
Don't Ignore Sites? Would it be called DIS? Isn't that like a slang term for an insult? Would that be considered poetic justice, or just a nice coincidence? And why do I even care? I'll tell you why.
Because I have nothing else to do right now.
I could be playing neopets, but ever since my bad experience with Treasure Planet, I don't feel like it.
Oh, by the way, I noticed that whenever I use spell-check, my stupid computer turns the word probley into to word problem.
To prevent this, I did nothing.
So, it is now up to you, the imaginary reader, to decide whether I mean probley or problem...it's almost like a game! But without the bad sound track.
And I promise not to force you to live when you would rather die.
Moving on, I have nothing else to say, but don't feel like quitting just yet.
I'm like the little engine that could.
Or maybe the Energizer Bunny.
I just keep going, and going and going.
Or I could be like that annoying guy on T.V.
who keeps asking if you can hear him.
If my site manages to last a decade, my readers *snicker* will probley wonder what I'm talking about.
My answer is simple.
It doesn't matter.
I'm just rambling.
Which means that it doesn't matter if you understand anything I say.
Doesn't that make you feel better? I bet it does.
Wow.
Look how long this has gotten.
I even impress myself.
Who would have thought I have this much free time? And I congratulate any reader who has gotten this far.
Ooooooo! You must check out the fortunes section of the random stuff page! I've just gotten an idea for some more, original, fortunes...I gotta go!(may the moose be with you) And now I am back.
I swear.
If iI fill out the fake tab form I'm gonna have to put back as my favorite word...I already have filled it out, though.
Would it be cheating to fill it out again? Only if I had multiple personalities.
Or would it be cheating if I didn't have multiple personalities? The world may never know.
Just like how many licks it takes to get to the bottom of a tootsie pop.
Would it vary? The number of licks, I mean.
Someone could have super-disolving spit, or watery-spit.
Or what if you took big ol' slobbery licks? Does the commercial take that into account? No.
It doesn't.
And let me tell you, it's an outrage.
It deludes all of American's sweet, innocent, candy-loving children into thinking that a cartoon owl is smarter than they are! "Mr.
Owl, can you tell us how many licks does it take to get to the bottom of a tootsie pop?" Or whatever.
And "Mr.
Owl" replies "One...Twoo...Three! Chomp" And he bites it.
That teaches our youth that it's okay to agree to help someone, and then ruin their experiment.
Well...it's not.
I am going to start a protest group.
Teens Against Cartoon Owls.
We could call ourselves TACO! I love the little tacos, I love them good! That is a direct quote from GIR, co-star and comic-relief on INVADER ZIM.
Hmmmm...intersting.
I put hyphens in both of his titles...it must be a conspiracy! I gotta go.
Those TACO buttons don't make themselves, you know.
I'm back again.
And not so cheesed off about the whole tootsie roll pop thing.
Right now, I have another twenty minutes on the Internet before I'm gonna watch T.V.
And I can't think of anything else to do.
So, predictably, here I am.
It's not like I have anything better to do.
Obviously, you know this.
After all, look how long this text is.
I wonder if I've made the world record? If I did, would I stop this? Why bother asking? I'll will most likely still be adding to this on my death bed.
Hmmmmm...has any old, senile person ever written anything? Was it coherent? Did it make more sense that this text? Is it possible to make less sense? Am I enjoying asking retorical questions? Yes.
Yes, I am.
But I seriously wonder what something written by a senile person would be like.
I've heard of poems and stuff written by people who were high, insane or paranoid.
But never senile.
Can a senile person write? Aren't they regressed to a child-like state? Does it even matter? Is anyone even reading this? Did I resume asking retorical questions? Do you care? Is this eating up time? I feel like I'm playing questions only on whose line is it anway.
I probley should have capitalized something, or underlined but I'm feeling lazy...hey, you try to keep your two and a half readers happy! It's really stressfull.
Someday, I'm gonna snap and just delete this entire thing.
Gee, I hope not! I worked sorta hard on this.
It's great for making random topics weave together to form an overall infrastructure of chaos.
That made little sense.
That's why it's here, and not some critically acclaimed site.
Ooooooooooooo! I'm gonna quote from the FLAMING CHICKENS HANDBOOK again! Yep! I bet you were just breathless in anticipation.
Okay.
Here goes.
Code: 472 of the Flaming Chickens Handbook states that this site in no way aknowledges the existance of other, better sites (hereon reffered to as the Losers) The Losers are a myth.
The Patron Saint of Paper Clips (me again!) claims no knowledge as to where that particullary nasty rumor started, but confirms that this is the best site ever.
It would be a sin against humanity for a better site to exist.
Should you refuse to aknowledge the Patron Saint of Paper Clips as the ruler of the Internet, you will be subjected to punishment as stated in Code 343 of the Flaming Chicken Handbook (i.e.
Experience vague, pain-like sensations when you're not paying attention) This has been a public service announcement.
This is a test, I repeat only a test.
Had this been an actual emergency, we would have bought up all the can openers and charged 3 cows and a pig for each one.
I repeat, lock all you doors and windows, this is it.
I repeat, there is nothing to worry about.
Everything is fine.
The end is not here.
I'm going, you're on you're own! Ahhhhhhhhhh!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I'm back!*smiles brightly* And apparantly delusional! Anyway, I just finished rereading my longest text ever.
And I became inspired to talk about nothing.
You see, I periodically read the longest text ever to check the constant downward spiral of my sanity.
Hmmm...I seem to be entertaining myself though, even while reading what I wrote.
Which is why I still go to the Really Really Big Button That Doesn't Do Anything website.
Because I am easily amused and have lots and lots of time on my hands.
Maybe, some day far in the future (like next Thursday) I'll print a copy of this insane text.
And then go door to door distributing it.
Eventually, this would become a monthly tradition.
Whole families would gather around their front door, in breathless anticipation while they attempted to barracade me out.
I can just see the whole community rising to thwart my attempts to spread love, joy and insane chaos.
I probley wouldn't actually print this out (think how much paper it would take!) but if I do, only friends and enemies will receive copies.
Hmmmm...maybe my condition is worsening.
Or not.
I'm still peeved about the cartoon owl from the Tootsie Roll Pop commercials.
He is pure evil.
TACO will eventually destroy him.
Unless he has already been destroyed by an even more radical Anti-Cartoon-Owl group.
I hope not.
Or, would that be good? I suppose I could let someone else have the glory.
After all, I'm not in this line of buisness for the fame, fortune and power.
What line of buisness, do you ask? Why, the assasinating annoying cartoon characters buisness.
(Actually I just question them untill they spontaneously combust, I ask lots of questions) So, in conclusion, ladies and gentleman of the jury(that's you) I could not have possibly tortured "Mr.
Owl" to death.
I love owls.
Hmm...I seem to be jumping from one subject to another more frequently.
Either I am growing more comfortable with my on-line writing, or I am progressivly getting more insane and chaotic.
I also am psyco-analyzing myself a lot today...hmmmm...I'm even saying "hmmmmm..." a lot.
Just like a real psychologist.
Hmmmmmmm.
Time for another boring disclaimer!!!!!!! Code: 742 of the Flaming Chickens Handbook states that in no part does the Patron Saint of Paper Clips (That's still me!) actually claim to be mentally ill.
That's either a) a publicity stunt b) An attempt at humor c) a cry for help or d) none of the above You can e-mail your responses by conducting a scavenger hunt of this site.
Some of the pages of this site contain a link encouging the two and a half people to e-mail the Patron Saint of Paper Clips.
There may also be evil little links that are designed to confuse you.
These links send stuff to someone named johnjones333@hotmail.com The Patron Saint of Paper Clips does not know who this individual is, but sincerly wishes that you send all your hate mail to him.
Not that the aformentioned individual claims to have received hate mail (or mail of any kind) via a website link.
Thank-you for your time.
Remember to send your answers to my sanity quiz to the e-mail account, flamingchickens333@hotmail.com Oh, and once I refer to myself in the first person again, the handbook quote is over.
I just thought that I might like to mention that.
Oh.
You're still here.
I figured you rush right on over to e-mail me.
Perhaps you don't have time to waste e-mailing me.
HA! HA! HA! That's funny!!!! If you you don't have time to waste, what are you doing here?!!! Oh, who am I kidding.
I figure that even the people I manage to lure onto my site from neopets don't even bother to come to this particular page.
Maybe I should make the link come here directly...Hey! What a good idea! That way I can spread my love, joy and insane chaos to more people! I'm a genius.
Gotta go, must lure innocent victems to the second most pointless site ever!!!! I'm back.
And really angry, and confused.
I've always known that I was weird, that's always been a given.
But now I realize that I am considerably more normal than the rest of my family.
Today we had a "family outing." Now, most families will go bowling, or putt-putt golfing.
They may go to a resteraunt with an arcarde, or the movies or to a theme park.
Not my family! No, we got the greatest family outing of all.
We got to go to a bar and play pool!!!!!*waits for readers to become insanely jealous* Yep, that's right, a bar with a pool table! Not only did we get world class cuisine (under-cooked hotdogs and over-cooked hamburgers), my little sister (age 10) got taught pool by someone I strongly supect is an ex-convict! Naturally when it was announced that we'd be eating dinner in this place, I could hardly contain my excitment(I glared at my mother and asked why we couldn't go to Pizza Hut) When we arrived, we were promptly served (after thirty minutes) In the meantime, we played a family game of pool(my parents played while my brother and sister and I watched) After two rousing rounds, our food came.
The food was superb, (our food came the exact opposite of how we ordered it, and half of the onion rings were missing) Then we joyfully returned to our game(my sister and the ex-con played my mom) We spent hours there (from 5p.m.-7:15p.m.) There were many people that were the same age as me and my siblings (no one in the room but us were under 30) Us kids had to be dragged kicking and screaming from the bar ( I almost fell asleep during the last game I watched) As we left, there was a feeling of goodwill and fellowship between all(my sister locked me out of the car and wouldn't let me in untill I started yelling profanity in her general direction) The high point of the entire night was when my mother gave me $21 for my report card.
She promptly borrowed $1 to help with the waitresses tip(This part I'm not being sarcastic about) All in all it was a night I'll remember forever (as the lowest point in "family outing"history, except for that time my mom dragged me to a church thing on the concept of truth.) My brother(age 13) even decided upon a new job he wants when he's old enough to work, a busboy at the bar.
We had to tell him that he would probley have to wait untill he was 21.(Absolutly nothing about that statement was sarcastic) As you can see, I love my families outings(Not unless you're blind...or stupid)I know it was her idea, 'cause my dad hates it, too.
My mom and my stupid little 10-year old sister loves it, though.
*sighs* Why does my life have to be so weird? I'm leaving...now I'm back! And not so pissed at my weird family.
Now is the time to mourn the loss of one of my most loyal readers (I think she's read the entire thing one time, which is more than anyone else has done so far) She has been banned from accesing any portion of the Internet, do to reasons that must remain confidental due to security reasons.
If I told you, I'd have to kill you and all that stuff.
So...now I am down to one and a half readers.
Untill such time that I have more.
I wonder why anyone would read this? You would have to have several characteristics that I possess.
First of all, you'd have to have an extrodinary amount of free time.
Second of all, you would have to have the patience to read through all of this.
And lastly, you'd have to know where the heck this site is.
I admit it.
I haven't exactly advertised this site.
Nor can I find it on any search engines.
Some of my pages have stuff written in to make search engines recognize me, but it doesn't seem to be working.
What must I do to rise above obscurity? I tell people I know about this site, but they either ignore this page, or don't even bother coming to the site in the first place.
I suppose that is the bane of all authors.
To pour your heart and soul into a passage, and have everyone ignore it.
*sniffle* Why must this be? Maybe I should just give up.
After all, no one would really care if I quit updating this site.
But I can't help but think of stuff like the evil over lord list and REALLY REALLY BIG BUTTON THAT DOESN'T DO ANYTHING.
They are not great neccesarily because of the content, (although that helps some) they are great because of their sheer length.
You can read a little each day.
And almost never finish.
Also, I guess I still am trying to get the world record.
I have heard some feedback suggesting that I make someway for people to remember where they stopped reading.
It can be very confusing, especially if you weren't paying attention in the first place.
Well, I dont want to organize this page, in any manner.
This is chaos.
And insanity.
Not neat little text in classifiable rows, in alphabetical order.